In the last video, we
introduced the concept
of a behavior planner,
and described the basics of
the finite state machine to
implement behavior planning.
In this video, we will
see how to build out
our system to handle
a more complete
intersection scenario.
We will start by defining
the specifics of the scenario
that will be handled.
We will then look at how we can
discretize the
intersection map into
sections to establish clear
transitions between states.
Then we will define the states
and transitions which are
required to complete
the given scenario
safely and efficiently.
To finish this video,
we will highlight the
testing procedure
required to confirm
the correctness and accuracy of
our behavior planning
system. Let's begin.
The scenario which we
will be attempting to
handle is a four-way
intersection,
with two lanes and stop
signs for every direction.
A diagram of such an
intersection can be seen here,
where the red lines represent
the stop lines which the car
is required to stop behind.
By the end of the video,
this vehicle should be
able to travel left,
right, or straight through
this intersection.
We'll leave dynamic objects
out of the scenario for now,
and we'll address them
in the next video.
We've now defined a very
restricted operational
design domain
for our behavior
planner to handle.
It's now time to implement
the behavior planner.
Let's start by looking
at how to discretize
an intersection so
that we can more
simply make decisions
in the environment.
The area of
the intersection where
a vehicle should
begin safely braking
is defined as
the approaching zone
of the intersection,
highlighted in red.
The zone of the
intersection in which
the vehicle must
stop and wait until
the appropriate time
to proceed will be
known as the at zone,
highlighted in green.
Finally, the zone in which
the vehicle is crossing
the actual intersection is
defined as on the intersection,
and is highlighted in orange.
The size of each
of the above zones
are dynamically changed based
on two primary factors:
the ego vehicle speed,
at higher speed, we will require
more distance to safely
and comfortably stop,
and the size of the intersection.
The bigger the intersection,
the bigger each zone has to be.
To handle this scenario,
we will require three
high-level driving maneuvers.
Track speed,
this maneuver state is
only bounded by the current
speed limit of the road.
Traditionally, this
is the maneuver given
before entering any region
of the intersection,
or after entering the on
the intersection zone safely.
The state entry action
sets the speed limit.
Decelerate to stop,
this maneuver state forces
the future trajectory
of the object to
stop before reaching
the stop point.
The entry action defines
the stop point location.
Stop, this maneuver tells
the vehicle to stay stopped
in its current location.
The entry action is to
start a timer to wait for
a fixed amount of time
before proceeding through
the intersection.
We will now look at
the different situations
the ego vehicle will
encounter in this scenario,
and figure out the finite
state machine elements
needed to encode the correct
behavior planning solution.
Let's start by looking
at the ego vehicle
before it enters
the intersection region,
where it has
a single constraint to
follow the speed limit
of the road.
This constraint is set based on
the entry action of
the track speed state.
When the ego vehicle enters
the approaching zone,
the red zone,
it must begin decelerating
to the stop sign,
thus will transition to
the decelerate to stop state.
The transition condition on
moving from track speed to
decelerate to stop is
therefore entry into
the approaching zone.
Then, once decelerating,
the next maneuver which
the autonomous vehicle
must execute is to come to
a full stop before the stop line,
or in the at zone of
the intersection.
To make sure this happens,
the vehicle stays in
the decelerate to stop
state until it has
both a zero velocity and
a position within the at zone.
The entry action in
the decelerate to stop
state is the establishment
of a safe stop location.
Due to the simplicity
of this scenario,
this is a single stop location,
the stop line as given to
the planner by
the high-definition roadmap.
This, however, we will
see in the next lesson,
will become harder to do once
other dynamic objects interact
with the ego vehicle.
Once fully stopped, the car
enters the stop state.
As the entry action,
a timer is started to make sure
that the vehicle stays
in the stopped state
for three seconds before
proceeding in accordance
with typical driving rules.
Once the timer is complete,
the planner automatically
transitions
to the track speed state and
follows the route
provided to it by
the mission planner
through the intersection,
be at left, right,
or straight through.
This is all the required
computation to handle
the simple four-way intersection
with the finite state machine.
Throughout this process, it
is vitally important that we
understand how we the human
expert analyze the scenario,
and what the specific
capabilities
of the resulting
behavior planner are.
These need to be captured in
the operational design
domain definition,
and we need to ensure
that we create
a complete state machine able to
handle every possible
case that can
arise for the given scenarios.
One particular issue that has
a big impact on
the performance of
our state machine is the issue
of noise in the inputs.
The state transition conditions
defined above are exact,
and rely on the vehicle
reaching the stop point
and achieving
a zero velocity exactly.
Even with no other dynamic
objects to detect,
the localization estimates
of the vehicle state may
contain noise and not satisfy
these conditions exactly.
To handle this type
of input noise,
we can introduce
noise threshold hyperparameters.
This is a small
threshold value allowing
speeds close to zero to
be accepted as stopped.
We will continue to see
these hyperparameters more
and more in the next lesson,
when handling
more complex scenarios
with dynamic objects.
Now that we've finished
creating the finite
state machine,
how do we test if it works?
Well, traditionally, there
are four stages of testing
required to confirm functionality
of a behavior planning system,
which follow from
our discussion of
safety assessment for
the full vehicle in course 1.
First, we perform
code-based tests,
which are done to confirm that
the logic of the code is correct.
For example, code-based tests
can tell the programmer if
the speed limits set
in the roadmap will be
the speed limit produced by
the finite state machine.
However, these checks
are incapable of
confirming if the state
transitions are correct,
or if the states are
capable of handling
all of the situations
in a given scenario.
For this, we have to
see if the program code
correctly handles
all situations as intended.
Next, we move to
simulation testing,
which is performed in a simulated
environment like Carla,
in which the state
machine performs
the scenarios which it
was designed to handle.
This type of testing
is able to confirm if
the state machine transitions
and state coverage are correct.
The number of tests performed in
the simulation should
be representative of
all possible situations which
can be seen when driving
the scenario to catch
any edge cases which
programmers might have missed.
Many times selecting
a representative
set of tests is not trivial,
especially as the complexity
of the scenarios increases.
We then move into
closed track testing,
once confident that
the state machine
performs as intended
in simulation.
This type of testing tests
specific scenarios which are hard
to confirm exactly in simulation,
such as parameter
tuning and noise,
and errors in
the perception output
in a real environment.
Finally, we proceed to
on-road validation testing.
Whereas all previous tests were
performed in a highly
controlled environment,
road tests can be
highly unpredictable,
and often break the system in
a manner otherwise not
imagined by engineers.
New variations on
scenarios can then be
incorporated into earlier stages
of the testing process.
Let's review what we've
learned in this video.
We first defined the scenario and
the operational design
domain to be handled,
a single intersection scenario
with a stop sign
in all directions.
We then saw how the intersection
can be discretized so that
each zone can be used when
making the transitions
of the state diagram.
We then built up the states
in transitions at the system
to correctly define
the required behaviors
throughout the intersection.
Finally, we reviewed
four stages of testing that can
be used to confirm proper
behaviors in the scenario.
In the next video, we will
show you how to handle
the same intersection scenario
while interacting with
other dynamic objects.
As we will see, this
makes the state machines
significantly more complex and
interesting. We'll see you then.